---
layout: post
title:  Day Two
date:   2014-07-04 16:11:00 CEST
timezone: CEST
locations: ["Roncesvalles, Spain",
            "Burguete, Spain",
            "Calle Alto del Molino, Espinal, Spain",
            "Espinal, Spain",
            "Viscarret-Guerendiain, Spain",
            "Zubiri, Spain"]
---

Theresa,
 
The phone we purchased is not working from here.  That is why I haven't called you. I'm sorry for that.
 
Otherwise, I did  make all my connections, just on time AND got to my hotel around 7 or 8 pm.  Very stressful first day and no time to even eat.  Started off the first day of walking around 8 30 am.  I need to say, that I'm not sure the Marines at Paris Island work out as hard as I did these first 2 days.  I started off yesterday on a clear, sunny day, but of course half way through it started to rain and it rained until the bitter end.  The walk was grueling as I was warned the first day out was the hardest.  Climbing the mountains to around 4600 feet, but not just on paths and not just one mountain. There will be lots of stories to tell when I get home.  It took me until nearly dark to reach the destination.  We started off today by 7 am, and of course it was pouring, nearly all day until about an hour from our finish point.  Needless to say, most of my clothes are soaked and muddy and each time I get to a hostal, the laundry service is full. I"m being very creative with outfits.  I'm thinking of taking a bus tomorow so I can get back on "my schedule."  I also might ditch half of what I brought and ship it to Santiago so it's there when I arrive.  No spiritual insights yet, just trying to stay alive.  You cannot believe how absolutely hard this is, I'm not sure what I was thinking.  Don't know when I'll get another chance to do this, but when the opportunity arises, you'll her from me.  Keep me in your prayers as you are in mine.  Pray for strength and endurance.  Walking for 8 to 10 hours a day, carring that pack, up hill then down hill through all kinds of terrain, in thunderstorms is really wearing me out.  Hopefully, if I can get a bus tomoorrow, I'll feel more hopeful of reaching my goal.  It still feels like cheating, but after these two days, that OK.  God bless you all.
 
Tom


---

[UPDATE]: 4:54 PM CEST

Hello again,
 
Don't know the next time I'll get to this so I thought I would say a few more words.  The first day I left St. Jean Pied de Port and walked to Rancevalles.  The hardest physical thing I ever did in my life.  It would not have taken much to convince me to quit by the time I got to my room that night \*shared with 200 others.  Today, as we left Rancevalles in the rain, we walked to Zubiri.  Another strenuos workout, but nothing like day 1.  Maybe Danny and Zachary can find these little towns on the map.  Each day was only about 16 miles so I'm well behind my planned schedule of 21 miles per day.  That's why a bus ride tomorrow might be a good idea, it can catch me up plus give my body a rest.  I'm thinking of taking the bus into Pamplona or Cizur Menor.  I could always start walking again from there if I have the energy and get even farther ahead.  Or maybe I can catch the Running of the Bulls in Pamplona!  It seems like no one wants to use this computer because everyone else has their own little devices and just use the WiFi connection.  Lucky for me.  The food leaves a lot to be desired here.  Haven't had what I consider a good meal since Monday night with the kids.  These pants I bought seem to keep getting bigger, they're practically faling off of me, or else I'm just losing more weight. 
 
Theresa, maybe you should try to call me and see if it ges through.  Just don't do it in the middle of the night.  It's 8 51 right now.  Anyway, I miss my home and all of you...Tell Karen, I'm NOT "living the dream," YET... but , maybe it will happen.  It's too early to tell.  God Bless you all.
 
Tom